---
title: "Ultra-high Voltage construction projects and total factor energy efficiency: Empirical evidence on cross-regional power dispatch in China"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-09-16-paper-title-number-6
excerpt: 'Cross-regional Power Dispatch; Ultra-high Voltage; Total Factor Energy Efficiency; New Energy System'
date: 2024-09-16
venue: 'Sustainability'
slidesurl: 'http://junjie-zhen.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://junjie-zhen.github.io/files/paper6.pdf'
citation: 'Yubao Wang, <i><b>Junjie Zhen*</b></i>, Huiyuan Pan. (2024). &quot;Ultra-high Voltage construction projects and total factor energy efficiency: Empirical evidence on cross-regional power dispatch in China.&quot; <i>Sustainability</i>. 16.'
---

Abstract: Optimizing cross-regional energy dispatch is crucial for addressing regional energy resource imbalances and significantly enhancing energy utilization efficiency. This study aims to analyze the potential impact of China’s Ultra-High Voltage (UHV) construction on firms’ total factor energy efficiency and provide empirical evidence supporting the role of cross-regional energy dispatch in improving firms’ energy efficiency. The construction of UHV infrastructure has become a vital part of China’s “New Infrastructure” projects, presenting a “Chinese solution” to the global challenge of regional energy resource mismatches. This study employs an enhanced two-step stochastic frontier method to quantify firms’ total factor energy efficiency and utilizes a difference-in-differences model to evaluate the impact of inter-regional electricity dispatch on this efficiency. The empirical analysis results indicate that UHV construction projects increase the total factor energy efficiency of regional firms by an average of 0.45%, which significantly contributes to firms’ total factor productivity. This conclusion remains valid after a series of robustness tests. Furthermore, the heterogeneity analysis results indicate that the UHV construction project increases the total factor energy efficiency of non-energy-intensive industries by 0.49%, and significantly enhances the total factor energy efficiency of the manufacturing industry by 0.94%. However, it has no significant effect on energy-intensive industries or non-manufacturing enterprises. Additionally, the mechanism analysis shows that UHV construction projects affect total factor energy efficiency through three pathways: industrial structure adjustment, urban innovation, and clean energy transition. This study offers insights for addressing regional energy spatial mismatches and provides policy recommendations for developing a new energy system aligned with regional needs.